.. _intro:

*******************
Arduino with Python
*******************

Introduction to Arduino
=======================

Just to get out of the comfort zone when programming only in Python may be 
worthwhile. Arduino is a soft introduction to electronics, not without its
own difficulties - but nevertheless enjoyable. Unless you have a specific
goal in mind it is probably a good idea to start with a complete starter kit
with an Arduino, breadboard, several modules and electronic components, a 
good sized multi-compartmented box cables and instructions. 

What they don't tell you is you will need reading glasses, a magnifying 
glass, strong tweezers and a good lamp. You will also need the patience of
Job, the strength of Samuel and tiny fingers.

Some suppliers such as Elegoo made a good offer with a good supply of 
materials. Their instructions were basic but none too exciting, but you 
could get a feel how each module functioned. There were three motors, one 
normal, one stepper and one servo motor and a power supply unit to drive 
them. If there was a suitable mounting system running both motors 
perpendicular to each other would produce an interesting experiment.

To progress further one needs a lucky break when searching the Internet, that
or a good text book. The more advanced work mainly concerns robots, which 
requires a fair bit of hardware. The other route many take is to use the 
Arduino with its breadboard as a prototype, in the end scaling down with
smaller integrated circuits, such as a micro Arduinos, or even just the main
chip. Cleverer users may be able to replace the Arduino completely by 
electronic parts, still the lessons learnt with the Arduino and its sensor
modules should be invaluable.

Part of the learning is the ability to relate to the results made with
various sensors. The software that Arduino comes with is the Arduino IDE and
this will be addressed further in :ref:`IDE Fundamentals`.